.TH MAC-REBUILD 1 "September 2025" "mac-rebuild 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mac-rebuild \- Intelligent Mac development environment backup and restore tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mac-rebuild
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mac-rebuild
is an intelligent tool for backing up and restoring macOS development environments. It detects what applications you have installed, asks what you want to backup, and can restore everything from a Git repository after a fresh macOS install.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B backup
Create an interactive backup of your current system. Detects installed applications and prompts for what to include.
.TP
.B restore \fIREPO-URL\fR
Restore from a backup repository. Clones the repository and restores only the applications and settings you previously selected.
.TP
.B init [\fB--repo\fR \fIREPO-URL\fR]
Initialize mac-rebuild configuration with a backup repository.
.TP
.B status
Show current backup status and configuration.
.TP
.B --version, -v
Show version information.
.TP
.B --help, -h
Show help message.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create a backup before wiping your machine:
.B mac-rebuild backup
.TP
Restore from a Git repository after fresh install:
.B mac-rebuild restore https://github.com/username/mac-backup.git
.TP
Initialize with a backup repository:
.B mac-rebuild init --repo git@github.com:username/mac-backup.git
.SH FRESH INSTALL WORKFLOW
After a fresh macOS install:
.IP 1. 4
Install Homebrew:
.B /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
.IP 2. 4
Install mac-rebuild:
.B brew install mac-rebuild
.IP 3. 4
Restore your environment:
.B mac-rebuild restore <your-backup-repo-url>
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.mac-rebuild/
Working directory for mac-rebuild
.TP
.I ~/.mac-rebuild/config
Configuration file with backup repository URL
.TP
.I ~/.mac-rebuild/backup/
Local backup data
.TP
.I ~/.mac-rebuild/backup-repo/
Cloned backup repository
.SH AUTHOR
Written for developers who need to frequently rebuild their development environments.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR brew (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR asdf (1)

